locally than the lessons case something
doesn't work right
all right welcome everyone that you but
is still starting oh yeah but yeah
alright so welcome everyone to this
week's IP LD meeting it's generally the
seventh in 2019
it's the be weekly sync from the IP LT
working group and let's see what we have
on the crypt pad I'll paste the URL in
case someone isn't on the crew period it
just yeah and we need a note-taker any
volunteers for note-taking this week's
is probably pretty easy because there
isn't that much I guess so anyone here
if not I can wait but then someone else
has to lead the meeting because do both
is really not in that case are you do
you want to take them meeting or take
the notes I can take it enough you made
yeah very compelling all right thank you
so this script I posted in the chat
thanks a lot alright so so please put
your name on the attendee list in the
craphead if you are attending alright
Adam that we go through what we've
worked on the past two weeks so I start
with Eric he for the number did hello
so like most of us make Asian but it was
very productive vacation CCC had a lot
of great brain food conversations so one
of the things I spent a lot
I'm thinking about was open versus
closed enumerations and getting an
arguments with people about that so I'm
trying to reduce what I learned into
some notes about ways we can refine open
versus closed dichotomies in enumerated
types into like or productive like what
is a behavioral treat for what we want
to do when we encounter problems with
the closed tightly so yeah I've been
trying to do some writing on that and
getting something ready to share not
sure if it's there yet but maybe soon
and so going forward I'm gonna try to
finish that up get something ready to
share and then poking more
implementation on the go side it's about
it danijon so my weight awesome I saw
the CCC pictures looking forward to see
the notes from all the conversations my
question is I believe but I I'm I'm I'm
not sure if I understand oh go IPO
d-prime kind of like like like builds or
sorry I'm I'm not sure if I understand
I'll go I peel the prime feet seemed I
peel the puzzle that we've been thinking
about about graphs inking and I kill the
API is and the revamped ipfs etc can you
just like a quick description of like
what go IPO the price is it's the
revamped it's the whole breed up yeah
okay
so from from the core API to the HTTP
part which it's a it's a go library for
working with I feel the objects it is
more ability specific and less like half
part of us have I building so like it
also it provides as far as I could tell
the efficient
for streaming objects and the diversity
objects that kind of stuff
and because we're the current API I'm
what people do use yeah spiritually it's
going the exact same place practically
it's a new repo so that I can write new
code without friction with existing
projects depending on the current
interfaces when in some cases the
current interfaces are wrong and several
things need to be adjusted all at once
so like all sorts of things that are
well documented in the existing repos
like links have these two other pieces
of metadata that nobody ever uses and
they're on set in practice and all
implementations just skipping those
things in a simple imitation so at some
point yes to the question and chat it
will replace the current go I feel the
implementations but it's gonna be a
while good my my specific question on
the does it touch the HDTV part is
because the the Jeff sign keeps like
struggling with like just dealing with
IPL the when using do ipfs the demon
because like api right now in the way it
works like sterilize everything to Jason
and so it has been a struggle to make
the client library just because API to
work with a dagger API of go a BFS
because of that to the point where we
have to use the block API and
deserialize things on the client side
and do the resolve of the pads on the
client side in order to make it work
because we cannot just go directly
otherwise go will mess up with the types
by sterilizing everything to Jason and
so cool okay I understand now it's not
touching this part yes the solution
there is still going to be sent back to
my data and have a teacher like my
client ID because we can't like give an
arbitrary objects we can't care to do we
can convert it to Jason but what we
should do is at least like Mable either
padding to the Jason API or like not
like somehow avoid 0 I think was the
yeah I get that but that was a tricky
question and Steven I thought you had
some clever ideas we talked about in
London about like
making some more details in the data
model layer of the spec about how we can
explicitly transform things that make
sense in C boy like bytes into a more
expensive JSON object in the canonical
way we can but at some point you're
always going to have an issue we're like
just something you just can't convert
certain formats it's like we should
totally make your try to make it
possible convert but that if you want to
fully like basically if you're using
this from like a Ivy League library use
implement Sarah the utility services
locally and then get the raw bytes
instead of like trying like to work in
format yeah but that's just my take on
it all right there any further questions
all right
and so next is me am I worked on so I'm
still working on the JavaScript side of
API is I basically as I haven't heard
any any bad things about the new API I
just started to implement it to see if
it actually works
looks pretty good so far I hope to
really get it wrapped up in one or two
weeks you'll see in there we can start
integrated properly and yeah next yeah
any questions on this nope so like or I
it would be great like if the applied
here would say more than just like
you'll do work because that has been
going for a while and people don't
understand like what is the current
status like you just described it like
we didn't written tasks the other thing
is why do you think it takes like two
weeks to finish the base implementation
to then go into the integration to the
rest of the code but it's like what is
the the big chunk of work that that on
the IP LD module that will take two
weeks and is there anything that we can
do to help you achieve that sooner it's
like a lot of things are awaiting those
students
big chunk is the integration so it's
done but the and clearly busy chase APF
ipfs completely fails so it could be
like an hour of work or it could be two
weeks I don't know so there if I'm
saying - yeah all right all right and
but but as so yes so I will edit to my
to my notes that so far it looks good so
basically the tunings FS part works with
the new API and that that's promising
because that's the huge part of so this
could be the biggest user in Chase ipfs
is a five Cody is the tuning safest part
and that already works so the other part
should be hopefully be simple policy all
right yes okay who's next
I'm still totally confused and because I
posted on time and now I rushed through
all the things I'm sorry for that
ahem some next is even I mostly get on
the review discussion I believe last
week's
interactive the constraint document the
next more the same and hopefully deal
with the job except all the comments
basement fix document based on review
comments yeah and potentially documents
in the definitions I'm not sure if I
understand the question
I'm using Jenny's French technique of
like asking questions even I notice like
I have on a calendar i graph scene
discussion for next week is there any
prep reading for that discussion so that
we are all ready yes read graphic
proposals a B and C yeah meeting invite
yeah so the three things
that we're requesting that everyone
comes prepared with understanding our
link there god I gotta usually right I
will get the are you guys call enough
thank you
alright and next one is Aiden I yeah so
terms actually doing stuff just trying
to you know get used to using are kill
day so I switched the stuff I was using
tease out kill D instead of using
protobufs and live on the right
direction I'm happy to be a go IPL D
prime guinea pig if required given that
it's just like another set of eyes and
it doesn't really affect anyone if it
breaks and then I just said a couple of
questions which I just either get people
thinking or I just get feedback from
people who thought about this more than
I have so I have two issues one is I'm
trying to synchronize a set of commits
basically and in order to be able to do
that you need to have a shared route so
that you can actually synchronize and
combine the two graphs together and the
graph the route might just be a name but
names aren't really things you should be
throwing around as commits so I'm not
really sure if anyone has thought much
about this or whether you know how these
types of things work I have something
that does works they just sort city
guess but any feedback would be
appreciated Steven you got something you
muted as far as I know the right way to
do this is basically have parent links
and there's like have root objects it
looks like like a not a roof like it was
sort of like a root root object that's
commit object it points to previous
commit Beckham it points to parents and
parents and parent and they all point to
different roots and then like you would
start it like the the to fork roots or
said if you for commits who walks back
and so you find a common commit and then
try to
some babies do it gif does that's at
least what I would do is that answer
your question is that totally not not
quite because um I guess maybe think of
it like this every time you start a new
get repo and github
they have like it has like the same
empty object in which means that in
theory every object on every object
every repo on github has the same parent
not quite actually it doesn't
it was simply they dumped right because
there's like a name that differentiates
them I don't know how they do that it I
don't think they actually have the same
empty object I think when you when you
start you don't have any commits and
then the first commit I like creative
object oh yeah I guess yeah sure
similarly it could be like if you were
just committing a you know everyone
committed like a blank readme if I get
to doing it right then all of those
would be the same we believe to have a
the commit object has like the date like
other headers username stuff like that I
think there may be other random things I
don't know
Brendan seems to know more about this
okay go ahead yeah yeah no students bang
on you to people committing the same
stuff and get because the commit message
itself includes timestamp you even if
you you the same person write the exact
same commits at different points
instances in time you'll get different
commits hashes and so they won't be the
same action so any get commit references
a root of a tree which is the actual
file hierarchy that will be the same see
and you can use gets plumbing tools to
actually pull out that graph base which
kit does to do comparison work but
there's a separate section that contains
sort of the information which will
always change and so when get tries to
resolve and so that's where the get
naming system comes into place and
that's where you see like rats and refs
are all all just pointers to commit
hashes and so as Steven had been saying
almost all all sort of version histories
are built by referencing their previous
entry and so when you try to you can
theoretically merge two things that have
no common history but
and I think that's sort of what you're
getting at with this notion that there
isn't like there's sort of this
theoretical zero point where there is no
commit and and that's sort of like two
histories that don't match at all which
is zero if it could be combined but like
doesn't really make the sense sense in
the sense in the sense of trying to sync
two divergent histories you would for it
to be a rationally divergent history you
need one common ancestor so I guess the
difference here is we don't have that
other brand of entropy like we're not
you were probably not going to always
like have like date stuff like that I
think you may be this is one of the
things trying to make but I think what
actually makes sense like you make it
like the idea and ASCII or something
like that like the root object I think
all the branches say like this this
thing at the bottom is like the gorillas
gonna notice a yeah I can just keep it
some policies it describes how emergency
should be done and how this uh object
should like behave that would actually
be a reasonable route but yeah I mean
that's sort of what I did for now is I
use like in ASCII or something as the
origin to just make it operate yeah so
like that actually because it's
reasonable person I would have a more
complex object that describes like you
could even name it or whatever you want
somebody like like I have somehow named
this thing and then you put that it's
rigged it's kind of weird like the name
doesn't point to anything it's
everything that points in the name but I
think it's really old
it also gets kind of inefficient because
of the way that traversing over those
structures work so you want to keep the
heads and names on the other side but
then you run into a yeah you'll be also
done washing rivers because it actually
has to be a route either so like you
have like because the bottom one doesn't
actually immerse in the bottom entry
doesn't have a parent it just is no
parent but in every single commit can
point to the same like name and the
means every single object was like
this okay okay like I'm a part of this
universe uh and that guarantees you have
uniqueness lovely it's just but it does
affect you get back to whatever I'm sad
tracking things when you get back to the
issue of like then if you changed the
reference then you're getting different
stuff when you lose comparability a
little bit yeah you need to have a
single thing you never change if it has
to be like one description like it's a
good
I'd hear whatever totally yeah and as
long as you're okay with that assumption
like a lot of user user experience side
of things want to change names and you
absolutely could not change totally
sorry this is this is good and moves me
a little bit on so the next question
they had which is any thoughts on what
happens when we want to when we want to
sort of break our links so for example
if I want to squash my previous hundred
commits into a single state
I should probably allow like providing
both options like say the link is here
if you want to verify it but like I I
think II promise you it's actually this
thing - well yeah you can check both
okay it's like I would have a special
squash minute it points to like the the
logical parent and then like the squash
tree and then the after the new State
Route so that you could follow either
like the the you can follow you the path
seconds sounds like a trusted guy make a
squash commit that does that for you you
can there are other it became about that
I don't know the right way doing it yeah
I was just thinking about that in the
context both of checkpoints and also you
know what happens if you want to an old
hashing algorithm goes bad and you need
a new one but the trick people heard new
hashing algorithms I think wind up like
we have large tables like that's like
the the end like final thing you can do
or basically have a large trusted table
didn't absol - the new hashes I hope we
never have to get there but with
Collinsville someday eventually we could
do that later yeah thanks some quick
mentions on compressing stuff into
checkpoints I don't know if you've heard
of the Google trillion project but they
have some really nice short terse white
papers about their a log oriented
mapping data structure like a like a
blockchain
and I can't remember the technical term
but they have some good write-ups on
ways to do checkpoints with bounded
rechecking time there might be some good
reference material you might put in the
name without in the document yeah sure
thanks I mean this always a snark you
gonna spend all day Eddie
alright thanks really
alright so does anyone else wants to
share any updates or has any questions
or comments no that's great then we even
stay on time or though I was late that's
great
and then yeah we'll see each other again
in two weeks and have a good time see
you then bye bye bye